From:
To:
Subject:
RE: Miles Morgan Australia / Meals on Wheels [SEC=OFFICIAL]
Date:
Wednesday, 5 February 2025 2:10:00 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
Hi mate, as discussed – see below.
Attributable to Minister Wells:
The Government expects Departments to meet all obligations under the Commonwealth
Procurement Rules.
The ANAO is currently conducting an audit of the contract between Miles Morgan Australia
and the Department of Health and Aged Care to deliver the Future Fit program.
The Government awaits the outcomes of this audit.
Deputy Chief of Staff
Office of The Hon Anika Wells MP
Minister for Aged Care and Minister for Sport
Member for Lilley
M: 
 | E: 
@health.gov.au
From: 
@thesaturdaypaper.com.au> 
Sent: Tuesday, 4 February 2025 12:24 PM
To: 
 
@Health.gov.au>
Subject: Fwd: Miles Morgan Australia / Meals on Wheels
Hi mate,
An unpleasant one for you. No doubt the below will wind its way up to you, but I
wanted a response from the Minister in addition to the Department. In brief:
1. What steps did Minister Wells take to ensure the concerns she heard directly
about Miles Morgan Australia / the Future Fit program were acted on?
2. Is the Minister confident she was getting the right advice from her department
about the state of the MMA engagement? Why, why not?
3. Does the Minister have faith that her department is capable of managing even a
'modest' contract engagement given the honestly farcical saga of MMA, now in
liquidation and paid taxpayer funds while it was trading insolvent?
4. Has the Minister asked for anyone, or been advised of anyone, in her department
FOI 25- 0322 LD - Document 1
Page 1 of 5 
s47F
s47F
s47F
s47F
s47F
s47F
s47F
s47F
This Document Has Been Released Under The 
Freedom Of Information Act 1982 
By The Minister for Aged Care
to be / having been referred to the APSC, NACC or other investigatory body regarding
the Future Fit program and/or Miles Morgan Australia contracts?
 
Thanks, deadline COB tomorrow.
 
 
 
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: 
@thesaturdaypaper.com.au>
Date: Tue, Feb 4, 2025 at 12:13 PM
Subject: Miles Morgan Australia / Meals on Wheels
To: News <news@health.gov.au>
 
Hi all,
 
I am working on a piece for this weekend's The Saturday Paper that relies on an
extensive documentary evidence trail regarding the contracts between the DoHAC
and Miles Morgan Australia and the Future Fit program. I have detailed questions,
which I have kept as brief as possible.
 
1. Did the Department of Health and Aged Care issue a $1.6 million transition / close-
out contract to Miles Morgan Australia while it was trading insolvent?
 
2. Was the DoHAC aware that within days of its last milestone payment to MMA
(almost $287,000) the private company registered a tax default with the ATO of more
than $700,000?
 
3. Reading the MMA contract for that final close-out, I think many people would be
surprised to learn it met its milestones and therefore earned the $1.6 million paid.
Why was money never withheld from MMA in accordance with the contractual levers
available to the Department to manage its conduct in the Future Fit program?
 
4. I understand that despite the CHSP contract sitting with Newcastle Meals on
Wheels, this site was run by MMA (presumably this explains some of the $1.6 million
'transition' funding to hand it back to NMoW) and that this was meant to be an under
the table arrangement. I have evidence the Department not only knew about this
arrangement, but endorsed it and at least tacitly approved of the subsequent
strategy to stage a visit with Victorian senator Janet Rice that deliberately misled her
about the operations at the Whitehorse site. Why did the department participate in
FOI 25- 0322 LD - Document 1
Page 2 of 5 
s47F
s47F
s47F
This Document Has Been Released Under The 
Freedom Of Information Act 1982 
By The Minister for Aged Care
this cover-up?
 
5. I also have evidence that MMA engaged its subcontractor Cowell Clarke, a law
firm, with what looks like taxpayer funds to provide advice to the then NMoW CEO in
his dealings with the board of Meals on Wheels NSW. I also know the Department
was told about this. Did the department do anything with this information?
 
6. Is the Department aware of attempts by MMA to have its subcontractor Cowell
Clarke advise on possibility of reconstituting Meals on Wheels Australia and/or Meals
on Wheels NSW and retaining the trademark? What was the purpose of this work?
 
7. The former Newcastle Meals on Wheels CEO Damien Isaacs was very close with
MMA's director Lakshman Gunaratnam and, it seems, the then assistant secretary in
DoHAC Russell Herald. I have emails between Isaacs and Gunaratnam declaring
they are "getting Rusty smashed" for his birthday and that he was warned, for fun,
that "the Brown Bros were in town". Were any of these relationships or apparent
hospitality events declared?
 
8. Did the DoHAC know that Damien Isaacs was being paid extra as a "Future Fit
Ambassador" despite being the Newcastle MoW chief executive, and that these
funds were initially paid by NMoW before being reimbursed by MMA, presumably
from taxpayer funds. Is this an acceptable use of funding?
 
9. Were other Newcastle Meals on Wheels representatives (including its chair and
new CEO post Isaacs) told not to put their concerns about the MMA conduct and
contracts in writing to the Department?
 
10. Did the Department ever condone the establishment of the Future Fit Collective?
 
11. Did this Future Fit Collective, initially with Gunaratnam as a director, use
material, data, operational intel and software IP obtained through the base
Whitehorse contract and proposed study, to establish itself as as a company with the
primary object of "providing professional services and digital solutions to not-for-
profit service providers who support and provide services to older and/or vulnerable
people".
 
12. Was the Department aware of the establishment of the Meals Marketplace and
was this contemplated in the almost $10 million in contracts awarded to MMA for its
work? Why, why not?
 
13. No doubt those in charge of this project now know MMA went into liquidation in
September last year with many creditors. Did the apparently unchecked nature of the
FOI 25- 0322 LD - Document 1
Page 3 of 5 
This Document Has Been Released Under The 
Freedom Of Information Act 1982 
By The Minister for Aged Care
Department's relationship with MMA, despite documented warnings of potential
fraud, corruption and misconduct going back at least to 2023, end up prolonging the
life of a business that was incapable of being sustained?
 
14. The involvement of MMA at the Whitehorse site descended into farce and the
transition, for which it received that $1.6 million, was a woeful undertaking that put
the future of the service at risk. The number of clients at Whitehorse actually went
backwards by 60 per cent. t seems that this funding was only made necessary
(essentially as a buy-out to 'force' MMA to do the bare minimum and not endanger
Whitehorse anymore than it was) by the previous sustained mismanagement of the
MMA contracts under Future Fit. Can I get a response to this?
 
15. Has Russell Herald faced any APSC Code of Conduct process?
 
16. Has Russell Herald been demoted or otherwise reassigned?
 
17. Is the DoHAC assisting the National Anti Corruption Commission with its
inquiries?
 
18. Have there been any other disciplinary processes, of any character, against
officials involved in the MMA contracting? If so, what and when?
 
19. Has the Department referred any matters relating to the MMA contracts, whether
by its own officials or people connected to MMA, to law enforcement? If so, can you
please provide a summary or the details.
 
20. In sum, this is how things land: the Department of Health and Aged Care devises
a scheme to purportedly make Meals on Wheels services more efficient for the
coming contest of market models on meal delivery but refuses to fund any meals on
wheels providers directly, thinking them untrustworthy, and instead shells out almost
$10 million on a private consulting firm with close ties to some department
employees, MMA, which proceeds to -- on a generous assessment -- mismanage that
funding, engage in bullying and aggressive behaviour and possibly even an attempted
hostile takeover of meals on wheels services and governing bodies using taxpayer
funds for legal firepower, spends a small fortune on ancillary costs like fancy
volunteer jackets and ridiculous menus, installs its own staff in the service, hijacks
the ERP/CRM tech rollout by ineptitude or subterfuge it matters not, oversees the
massive decline in said service while setting up other businesses and "not-for-
profits" related to the contract but not expressly authorised by it, presumably with a
view to establishing itself as a market leader in the coming meals boom, and is so
inefficient about all of it that it becomes insolvent and is sent into liquidation. At
no stage did the Department of Health and Aged Care seek to use the levers available
FOI 25- 0322 LD - Document 1
Page 4 of 5 
This Document Has Been Released Under The 
Freedom Of Information Act 1982 
By The Minister for Aged Care
This Document Has Been Released Under The 
Freedom Of Information Act 1982 
By The Minister for Aged Care

